[DOC-9373] Add upgrade instructions for v23.2 Pre-Production Preview (#18151)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/upgrade-to-v23.2.md

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
toc: true
docs_area: manage

> page_version: v23.2

Author: I took your suggestion above to make the Upgrade Policy topic more generic and I filed DOC-9374 about the version-specific upgrade pages and DOC-9375 to do something better than page-level variables to track the current production and pre-production preview releases for use in installation and upgrade topics and in the Cloud release notes.

> page_version: v23.2

Reviewer: Thank you!

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
{% else %}
{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> {% endif %}

Author: This is the upgrade topic so I don't think it makes sense to discuss creating new clusters here. WDYT?

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="single-node">
When you start the upgrade, the cluster will be unavailable for a few minutes while the node is stopped and restarted with {{ page.page_version }}.

Approximately 72 hours after the node has been restarted, the upgrade will be automatically finalized. This enables certain [features and performance improvements introduced in {{ page.page_version }}](#expect-temporary-limitations). Finalization also removes the ability to roll back to {{ page.prev_version }}, so it's important to monitor your applications during this 72-hour window and, if you see unexpected behavior, [roll back the upgrade](#roll-back-the-upgrade) from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console.

> </section>

Author: Done, used the same content both places, adjusted a little from your draft.

> </section>

Reviewer: Thanks, LGTM

</section>

After it is started, an upgrade cannot be cancelled. Instead, you can wait for the upgrade to finish, then [roll it back back](#roll-back-the-upgrade) for up to 72 hours, after which time it will be finalized and cannot be rolled back.

## Step 6. Monitor the upgrade

Once your cluster is running CockroachDB {{ page.page_version }}, you will have approximately 72 hours before the upgrade is automatically finalized. During this time, it is important to [monitor your applications](#monitor-your-application) and [expect temporary limitations](#expect-temporary-limitations).

If you see unexpected behavior, you can [roll back](#roll-back-the-upgrade) to {{ page.prev_version }} during the 72-hour window.

### Monitor your application

Use the [DB Console]({% link cockroachcloud/tools-page.md %}) or your own tooling to monitor your application for any unexpected behavior.

- If everything looks good, you can wait for the upgrade to automatically finalize or you can [manually trigger finalization](#finalize-the-upgrade).

- If you see unexpected behavior, you can [roll back to {{ page.prev_version }}](#roll-back-the-upgrade) during the 72-hour window.

> <a id="respect-temporary-limitations"></a>

Author: Ref: https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/CC-26638?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiYTQzMDU5NzZmY2U5NGE0ODk1ZjZiZTVhNmY1MTE2OWUiLCJwIjoiamlyYS1zbGFjay1pbnQifQ

> <a id="respect-temporary-limitations"></a>

Author: Ref: https://github.com/cockroachlabs/managed-service/pull/15796

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
toc: true
docs_area: manage
page_version: v23.2
prev_version: v23.1
pre_production_preview: True
pre_production_preview_version: v23.2.0-beta.3
---

{% if page.pre_production_preview == true %}
[CockroachDB {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }}](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.page_version }}#{{ page.pre_production_preview_version | replace: ".","-"}})  is available to CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters for testing and experimentation. An [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator-legacy) can upgrade your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. This page guides you through the process of upgrading. To enroll your organization, [contact Support](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/hc/).

> 

Reviewer: How about a warning here to the effect that this (pre-prod preview and the testing version it enables) is not recommended or supported for upgrading a Production cluster, and is for testing purposes only?

Maybe we can reuse some of the existing language we have elsewhere?

Author: Now really done

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
toc: true
docs_area: manage
page_version: v23.2
prev_version: v23.1
pre_production_preview: True
pre_production_preview_version: v23.2.0-beta.3
---

{% if page.pre_production_preview == true %}
[CockroachDB {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }}](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.page_version }}#{{ page.pre_production_preview_version | replace: ".","-"}}) is available to CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters for testing and experimentation.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
This [testing release]({% link releases/index.md %}#release-naming) is not qualified for production environments.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> An [Org Administrator]({% linkcockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator-legacy) can upgrade your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. This page guides you through the process of upgrading.

Author: ```suggestion
An [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator-legacy) can upgrade your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. This page guides you through the process of upgrading.
```
